# Generate Record Data

The `Generate Record Data` workflow generates mock data following a JSON schema defined by the user.

Select `View example outputs` to explore JSON schemas and corresponding mock datasets generated by this workflow.

## How it works

1. [**Input**] A JSON file containing the JSON schema with which to generate output records (optional).
2. [**Process**] The user edits the uploaded JSON schema or creates one interactively.
3. [**AI Calls**] The system uses generative AI to create a dataset of mock records following the data schema.
4. [**Output**] A JSON schema defining structured data records and a dataset of mock records following this data schema.

## Input requirements

- The input schema, if provided, should be a JSON file conforming to the [JSON schema standard](https://json-schema.org/).

## Use with other workflows

`Generate Record Data` can be used to create mock data for demonstration or evaluation of any other workflow accepting structured records as input:

- `Anonymize Case Data`
- `Detect Case Patterns`
- `Compare Case Groups`
- `Match Entity Records`
- `Detect Entity Networks`

Mock data is particularly helpful when working in sensitive domains and/or with personally identifiable information (PII).

## Tutorial

Let's start by creating a mock case dataset for customer complaints, where each case record describes an identified individual and the nature of their complaint regarding a specific product. This is a useful proxy for any individual-level case data or "microdata" where the privacy of data subjects must be respected.

From the `Generate Record Data` homepage in a running instance of Intelligence Toolkit, select `Prepare data schema`.

### Modifying the default schema

In the top left, you have the option to upload an existing JSON schema. This is helpful when the data schema represents an existing data standard or has been saved from previous use of the workflow. In this tutorial though, we will begin by defining a new schema using the `Edit data schema` form. Any changes made using this form will be reflected in the `Preview` pane to the right.

The initial JSON schema contains some boilerplate metadata fields representing best practices for schema design. The metadata fields are as follows:

- `$schema`: Indicates the version of the json-schema standard that the current schema follows. Leave this field as it is.
- `$id`: Provides a global ID for this schema anchored in a web domain, e.g., that of your organization. You may wish to edit this if you expect your schema to be widely used, but it can be left as it is for use inside Intelligence Toolkit.
- `title`: A short title indicating the kind of data that the schema represents.
- `description`: A longer description of the kind of data that the schema represents.

Try editing some of these metadata fields now, and see them reflected in the `Preview` of the `JSON Schema` to the right. In particular, set the title field to `Customer Complaints`.

The schema in progress is validated after every change, with the message `Schema is valid` confirming that the current schema conforms to the standard specified in the `$schema` field.

Try downloading an edited schema using the download button, uploading it via the `Upload schema` control, then continuing as below.

### Creating the record collection

Now select the `Sample Object` tab, and notice how none of these fields are contained in the sample object itself. We can understand this by going back to the `JSON Schema` tab and seeing that the schema is of type `object` and that the `properties` of the object are currently empty, indicated by the empty braces `{}`. Whatever we add to the `properties` of the top-level object in the schema gets added to the `Sample Object` (and indeed to any objects that conform to the schema).

Let's now add some fields to the object using the buttons under `Add top-level field` in the form to the left.

To create a dataset of records rather than a single object, the schema needs to contain an object array field. Press the `obj[]` button to add an object array field at the top level (i.e., level 0). The new field will be given a generic name by default: `object_array_1`. Rename this to `complaint_records` and see on the right how this creates an array of objects whose properties you can define next.

Note that all new fields have the `Required?` checkbox checked by default, placing all field names in the `required` field of the object. This is a requirement for the [OpenAI Structured Outputs API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/structured-outputs/supported-schemas), which we'll later use to generate mock data that follows the schema. Similarly, all objects must also have `additionalProperties` set to `false`, so the `Additional?` checkbox is left unchecked by default.

### Defining record attributes

Next, we need to add fields to the objects of `complaint_records` for each attribute of the records we want to create.

Using the controls under `Add field to complaint_records`, press the `str` button to add a string (i.e., text) field. This field appears as the level 1 string `string_1` (level 1 because the field is nested one level down from the `complaint_records` array at the top level, i.e., level 0). Edit the text label from `string_1` to `name`.

As further string fields within `complaint_records`, now add:

- `street` and `city` as string fields
- `age` as a numeric field using the `num` button
- `email` as string field
- `price_issue`, `quality_issue`, `service_issue`, `delivery_issue`, `description_issue` as boolean (`true`/`false`) fields using the `bool` button

Next, we want to add a `product_code` string field, but limit the posible values of the field to a predefined list called an "enumeration". Do this by checking the `Enum?` checkbox and observing the default values `A`, `B`, and `C` added to the enumeration. These values can be edited, deleted, and expanded as desired. For this tutorial, simply add further enum values alphabetically from `D` to `H`.

Note that boolean attributes of the record could also have been created using the `str[]` button to create a string array, checking `Enum?`, and specifying `price_issue`, `quality_issue`, `service_issue`, `delivery_issue`, `description_issue` as possible values. However, by using independent boolean fields we simplify the overall record structure and avoid the challenges of nested arrays in the final data object.